when you get that call had you known the
context the behind the scenes that
unhealthy culture honestly do you think
you would have made a different decision
I think I think I can say this
Chelsea Legends
I read the dad was the biggest influence
on your career and then I read a
separate quote saying sometimes I hated
him you know my dad was a tough man
pushed me very hard on the football
front and it got probably a bit too much
the fear of failure was a huge driving
force that made me what I was and gave
me the career I got in the end
Chelsea fans will be listening to this
because they want to get your opinion on
what's just happened because since
you've left we've not really heard from
you I came back here because this was an
opportunity to come to Chelsea travel
close to my heart but I could see and
training the level wasn't enough the
size of the squad with players that will
test you and question you questioning
you and then Chelsea spends more money
than anyone's ever spent in a window it
seemed like Tails could see that the
players were ready for the season to
finish but low standards are a symptom
of something further Upstream that's
happened you know we didn't get the
results I wanted and I know a lot of the
reasons why like what so
one moment occurred in your life that
really tested you at a much deeper level
the passing of your mother and while you
were playing at the very very highest
level I was a mummy's boy I lost the
closest person to me you know everything
to me the emotional support I want to
say something more you know and I
couldn't
what would you want to say
Frank is a legend there's absolutely no
denying that
but so much has happened in recent times
in his life as a manager that unanswered
questions remain and I wanted to have a
conversation with Frank an honest open
conversation to see if we could get to
the bottom of some of those unanswered
questions
what was happening behind the scenes
how did it actually feel for Frank
is anyone to blame what does Frank want
to do next in how and what caused Frank
to be the man that he is and that's
maybe the most fascinating question of
all
because there's some things
that Frank has just never talked about
before
but he's made the decision to talk about
them today and if you have unanswered
questions
I don't think you will at the end of
this episode
[Music]
Frank
how are you doing really well thank you
there's always a there's always a short
and long answer to that isn't it
I was waiting for your second drink
what's the what's the long version of of
that no I'm doing really well I'm um I'm
currently uh on a break I suppose from
working
which is a pleasure in ways because I am
obviously the the work of a the manager
uh I was gonna say Premier League
manager but any manager in football is
intense
um so at the moment I'm on a break sort
of holiday time for me a little bit
family time
um and probably when I'm
out of work I learned this when I left
Chelsea actually
um
it was I had a year out after that and I
really learned to try to improve my
appreciation of when you're out of work
you're fortunate enough to be able to be
out of work whatever that circumstance
is but try and enjoy your family and be
very very present so the minute I'm
pretty present at home which is a good
thing hopefully for my children and wife
and uh I'm in a pretty good place
I remember my my brain would often drift
off when I had my time out of work
um and I would think about things
professionally so I'd think about things
that I could be doing or you'd think
back to the past when you're when you're
having those moments where you'll meet I
know your kids are running around and
you you have a moment where your brain
drifts off to work what is what are the
subjects that your brain starts thinking
about professionally
you you think a lot in management uh
about people so if I if I reflect on
situations like leaving Chelsea or
leaving Everton and those things there
is there are a lot of things that are
out of your control
you get to a point where you kind of can
get probably 70 of them and lock them
away and kind of go and I'm right with
that you know results you can't control
but 70 you kind of you're okay with and
there's 30 that you kind of niggles at
you that's how I am and a lot of those
things when you become manager and maybe
sort of like people things I think
there's sort of tactics and all these
things are huge in a modern game and I
I'm certainly a coach I'm not a manager
but when it comes to managing I don't
know 25 30 players managing and building
because you are the figured head of a
building when you're the head coach or
manager I think sometimes when you're
reflecting you can reflect on things did
I have that was that interaction right
would I have dealt with that right could
I dealt with it differently and
hindsight is like the best best thing
you know it's so simple to sit there be
hindsight and think you know I should
have done that so I suppose I had
moments where I go over things like that
but they're all with a with a yearning
to sort of be a bit better or learn that
you might have done something wrong or
actually you come to conclusion oh maybe
did it right so you know I dip in and
out of that stuff
um and that probably is you know as I
say I wouldn't say I'm the only one but
I certainly am someone that is you know
I can never control when those moments
come I can be now pushing the swing you
know with my kid and then my mind goes
back to something called things ahead to
something and you know that probably
means that I'm absolutely invested in
what I do
yeah I can relate to all of that I think
any anybody can um and I also really
like your analogy of once you get to
like 50 70 piece with something it's
kind of resolved as much as you know
yeah and then there's other things which
feel kind of unresolved I guess or
there's more wisdom to Garner from those
experiences well I think if you don't
get to peace with a 70 I think you can
get yourself in a bit of a mess you know
I think you can go over everything and
correct yourself and then what is the
answer going forward so I think kind of
understanding what you are and then
going no no that was fine whatever the
result for a win or for a loss I've had
games as a coach and as a player where I
I we've won a game and I know I got
something wrong in the game but you take
the plot it's afterwards but inside I
know I got it wrong I've had games that
we've lost and you get criticism from
the outside and I know my prep was right
you know in my head so I think those
sort of things you can kind of Stack Up
and Go no that's fine but then there's
always the 30 and we'll always strive
for and it might be less I don't know if
30 sounds a big number when I say it
sometimes it's 10 to try and make you as
good as you can be so I kind of go over
that stuff because when you're out of
work when you're not working and you
don't know in foot we don't know what
your next gig is you know it's very hard
to jump too far into the future because
everything looks different there so how
can you stack yourself up as good as you
can now
I want to get into all of that but I I
want to take a step back because I think
um I feel like there's more I need to
understand about who you are as a person
and your characters and your character
and really the the like the foundations
you're built upon to understand all of
these things the things we're going to
talk about so what do I what do I need
to know about Frank Lampard in terms of
the influences and the experiences that
shaped your character the character of
the man that sat in front of me because
you know I've spoken to a lot of people
about you in preparation of this
conversation no no but they all they all
seem to sing from the exact same him
shoot they all say everyone says you're
just a a wonderful man like a really
good solid gentleman and it's people
don't know this but we weren't going to
have this conversation before yeah but
you've just been a total Class Act in
even not being able to come last time
because of you know reasons outside of
your control
um the way you conduct yourself you just
conduct yourself as a real gentleman
um and then in terms of your mentality
when I was reading through your early
years it's clear that there was this
real
Obsession to be better I mean Harry said
Harry redknapp said that you were the
hardest training hardest working person
he's ever worked with when you're a
young man
tell me what do I why is Frank Lampard
the way he is I I grew up in in Romford
in Essex so
um I will call it probably a middle
class upbringing in terms of my dad had
been a professional footballer
um and so I went through a pretty um
comfortable upbringing where I was down
to school every day aspiring to do
pretty well at school
um training pretty much every day and
plan at the weekend so after school
we'll go and try and Tottenham and
Arsenal and West Ham at one point I was
trying little three you could in those
days now it's different
uh I was playing Cricket I was playing
for Essex as a child so that was on
Monday night having Nets at Chelmsford
and then on Saturday I went to school
he's going to school on Saturday so she
was devastated with at the time as we
all were but that was how the school
works and on Sundays I played so my more
week was so busy but it was content very
content in terms of relationship of my
family I had a a dad who was pushed me
very hard on the football front very
very hard it was quite a hard task
master what does that mean in reality
um that means that probably when I was
probably started kicking the ball when I
was at four or maybe it seems like a
walk but you know like remembering my
early days would be four or five and
then so that was me in terms of I loved
the football
um but probably by the time I was eight
or nine I was probably getting like
coached or pushed in in what 15 or 16
year old might be when they're sort of
going into an academy at West hamster
where I ended up as in work on your
weaknesses go over the park you need to
have more stamina you if it's not good
enough your agility is not good enough
so I was like
used to put down the the the cushions in
the front room and had me doing reaction
for our ball against the one react and
jump I'm a kid I I loved it don't get me
wrong but there were times when I didn't
love it and it got probably a bit too
much I'm not gonna
cry about it because it made me what I
was and gave me the career I got in the
end and then on the other flip of that
so I had that pushy kind of thing and so
after a game on a Sunday we would lose
and I would get he would give me some
criticism on the way home and I would be
a bit emotional and fortunately for me
when I think about sort of
fight and how things work together to
maybe get used to where you got you you
end up being my mother was the the flip
the emotional support the you know arm
around you the quiet word I was a
mummy's boy and that was completely my
upbringing so as I say it was pretty
comfortable and in the end it led to me
leaving school with my gcses getting
decent grades and then going to sign on
as a yts at the time an apprentice at
West Ham
I read that the quote about your father
I think it was in the independent that
your dad was the biggest influence on
your career and then I read a separate
quote saying that I have an awful lot to
thank him for but sometimes I hated him
yeah I I stick by that quiet
I think you'll probably find it um
a lot in stories similar to mine
um and in the modern day I think it's
changed because I think parents now
might the thing with my story then in a
different era was it it felt pretty
organic my dad had played
um he saw probably a bit of talent in me
and pushed and drove in an old school
way I want you to be a player son you
know and he was like he think I think he
found a new sense of pride in pushing me
there now I think some parents get
excited about all the bright lights that
may be and they push their children and
I think that's another story but I think
mine was real you know my dad was a
tough man is a tough man and he pushed
me and um I remember being over a park
and it was raining it was crossing balls
for me to head hedden's never been a
strength of mine
throughout my career and I couldn't you
know I couldn't connect I was missing
them and he was shouting at me and I
remember sort of stomping off and and
being emotional about it and um those
things stick in my head and again they
were the building blocks of of myself as
a person so you know I this isn't a sob
story it's just a reality of what I went
through and as I started a lot of other
comfort so I you know other people don't
have it as good and it was without that
who knows in a football sense if I'd
have got to where I got and how does
that um what relationship does that make
you have with your work and progress and
self-improvement at that very young age
because you sign up West Ham when you're
14 years oldish uh 15 maybe 15 yeah 15.
and and I and I I mean as I said I read
that Harry redknapp quote that you
outworked everybody else yeah um
what what is your relationship with your
work yeah from that very young age well
I I I'm sort of
um really interested in this kind of
nature versus nurture thing
um what was in me already was ingrained
in me maybe to be this kind of very work
ethicy kind of person I think I had you
know physical capacity I was a chubby
kid to be fair I was quite chubby at
these cheeks curtains as you had in
those days and I remember like I know I
needed to get fitter and
um and get stronger so
um and then being pushed by my dad
particularly and encouraged by my mum
probably gave me this real desire
um to an understanding that if you don't
work you're not going to get there and
that you know that's what I would try
and pass on to my children now but it
really stuck and it became me so by the
time of being you know 16 as I remember
it probably been at West End my early
years I'd probably been forced into a
bit by my dad but I took it on board so
you know I wanted to get faster so he
put me in running spikes and I had to
run after training go and run over the
back and I used to hide my spikes go out
the backs I didn't want the other
players to see me because I felt
embarrassed
um I'd go in on days off
um I would practice extra shooting I
would do everything I could to to
improve and it probably was looking back
um a desire to be the best and I was
never the best I was probably like the
second or third best kid in pretty much
every team that I played in in whatever
I did Cricket or football
um but I had a real desire to and I also
had a fear of failure and as much as
that doesn't sound like a nice driving
force it can be a really strong driving
force I think where did that fear of
failure come from I don't know I don't
know I think it's in my makeup maybe I
don't know it's probably just how I am I
probably have it still these days I
think it can be really positive it was
in my footballing career and it carried
on throughout probably still in my
management career
um it can probably be the flip of that
in my life because if I fear of failing
something I won't approach it and I
that's me I don't want that you know my
wife will always Christine jokes with me
when we go on holiday and you want to
paddle board or something I'm not going
near that because I know I'm going to
fall off a lot you know so she'll laugh
at me so I'm like you paddleboard I'll
lay on the beach or I'll lay on the Lilo
or something like that I actually use
the paddle board as a lie like that's
like that's the joke but in the biggest
sense in my life you know that fear of
failure is and as it can probably maybe
make me uh not try things I should do
but in terms of my footballing career
the fear of failure was a huge driving
force and I don't think it's a bad thing
because I think there's a certain
humility to it and my mum would
certainly have been a driver of me as a
young person just like stay humble son
stay humble never get too higher stay
there and you'll be fine in your own
head so I think I had a real
understanding of my weaknesses and I
thought well if I can work on these
constantly and then I started to see
results really step by step sometimes
you go back you go forward a few but I I
can certainly say looking back at my
career from start to finish
I didn't leave anything on the table in
terms of work ethic and training you
know I don't want to sound like an
absolute machine there'll be days when
you get older where you come off it a
bit or you you start to find life
affection different ways but I I when I
look at my peers in football
um I certainly had a training ethic that
at least stood right at the top whether
you know others can stay the same maybe
but I felt that I mean that's the Harry
redknapp quote he says that
um during his career
um he never met anyone that trained as
hard as Frank he would be out there on a
Winter's day practice and shooting for
hours Left Foot Right Foot etc etc
that fear of failure though I can see
how it becomes a driving force and makes
you stay out there on a Winter's day
Left Foot Right Foot at him leaving no
stone unturned but with all these things
there comes there comes a more a cost on
the other side of the coin right
and you I mean you talked about the
paddle board thing which is that like
kind of if I don't do it then I won't
fail but one of the things that I was
assuming is it would also make you quite
a chronic overthinker yeah because I
think people that have that fear of
failure they try and think their way
through a situation before it happens
yeah typically what is the cost of being
that having that fear of failure
um well the other thinking thing is
maybe a cost and I think that can be a
positive too but I think it can be quite
taxing on yourself you know for anyone
with things like that and you know
sometimes I would I've tried to make
myself you know not an overthinker
however you do that I don't know because
I've not found a solution to that one
because
um I think that's when you are that um
it's in you so
um probably the the the the negative or
downsides have been probably a bit taxi
than myself but I think you learned to
live with that too and I think you
understand it I think it's um
something that I'll never master and
um it can probably cause you in to over
complicate in situations like you're
saying about I don't want to get into
that but if you do get into something
and you're really overthinking you have
to get into something
I now try and step back and simplify and
say stop overthinking it simplify it
because for me anything in life if you
can simplify the basics you probably get
quicker to the solution so
um that one's just a struggle that I put
up with but as I say I think it's just
part of my makeup if I wasn't an
overthinker if I didn't have that sort
of obsessive sort of perfectionist
training Drive I wouldn't have got to
where I got to because I was not Lionel
Messi who has this god-given Talent
that's there like wherever my talent was
on the Spectrum I needed to push it and
I constantly try to how did you enjoy
the process if you're overthinking I
weirdly like I've really grown to like
the stress of what it brings and that's
and that that's you might start thinking
I'm a strange person I don't know but I
loved
stressful training you know to put on a
physical site for instance I loved like
that feeling of like almost feeling sick
on a pre-season run or you know really
intense training sessions I I really
enjoyed that maybe not always in the
moment but you know when you get to the
end of it you go if I got through that
and it was so intense and hard and maybe
in life sometimes I set myself
challenges and maybe I'll make it more
complicated than I should but I don't
mind that stuff and that's probably when
I was started off talking about that
relax when you're with your children I
think I'm still
um juggling that one and I think
probably a lot of people are I don't
know I think you know being overthink is
not something unique to me it's
completely everywhere
um but I don't I don't know what else to
say and that's what I am that that
enjoying the the pain like the preseason
run if you feel sick then you feel good
about yourself yeah why
I don't know I mean I went to the gym
this morning and I really didn't want to
go and I bought the dog and my time
limit's getting shorter and I'm gonna go
and I want to go I'm going to go in
because I know the buzz that'll get off
afterwards and that's kind of my drug
and always has been and you know it
probably starts from all those early
days of you know you must work hard you
must push yourself you must be as fit as
you can be and it probably just stuck
and it's probably a bit of a lifer for
me um but I do I do thankfully I I I I
enjoy the stress of hard work and
physical but less now I'll finish you
know now it's more to
not get too unhealthy and unfit whereas
when I was training and playing
even when I finished playing for a
couple of years if I went for a 5k I
need to beat my 5K PB I have to try and
beat it now when I do a 5k I'm just
going to complete it you know and I'm
completing it in like 20 or 30 seconds
less so I've I've dropped that one
slightly and maybe I transfer it into
other parts of my life I guess quick one
before we get back to this episode just
give me 30 seconds of your time
two things I wanted to say the first
thing is a huge thank you for listening
and tuning into the show week after week
means the world to all of us and this
really is a dream that we absolutely
never had and couldn't have imagined
getting to this place but secondly it's
a dream where we feel like we're only
just getting started and if you enjoy
what we do here please join the 24 of
people who watch this channel regularly
and have hit the Subscribe button means
more than I can say and if you hit that
subscribe button here's a promise I'm
going to make to you I'm gonna do
everything in my power to make this show
as good as I can now and into the future
we're going to deliver the guests that
you want me to speak to and we're going
to continue to keep doing all of the
things you love about the show
thank you thank you so much back to the
episode when you when you finished your
footballing career you know there's many
options you had punditry I mean I'm just
talking about the typical path to that
footballers sometimes they just go into
business yeah a few of them going to
coaching and stay in football but you
you made the decision to stay in
football why
and was there anything else that was
tempting you well I did Panda tree for a
year so I spent a year working mainly on
BT and doing some different things BBC I
did a few bits and and I really enjoyed
it it was great I was working a lot with
real Ferdinand Stephen Gerrard
um Jake Humphrey who had them recently
and just really good people and and it
was like a step in the game and a step
of retired so I can do other stuff that
you know the life of a pundit is you
know much easier than the manager we all
know that so I kind of put my eggs in
both Baskets at that point I did that
and I did my coaching Badges and I
wanted to kind of see how I felt a
little bit and I didn't want to be a
manager in my 20s when I got to my 30s I
was like that's interesting people
managers now what how what are they
dealing with I just thought about myself
in my 20s more
um and then when I finished I did my
coaching badges I started to quite like
it and then I've got an offer out of the
blue to go and manage Derby Derby County
the owner Mel Morris kind of went out in
a bit of a limb he was speaking to Harry
redknapp who's my uncle
um Harry said to speak to Frank we sat
for two hours in Chelsea in a hotel and
he offer me the job and it was like um
a Christian has a sound and it's like
jump and the net will appear and we sat
in my front room and I was like you know
I've done my coaching badges but this is
a proper job I go to Derby just they've
got some problems and it's going to be a
difficult job or whatever that's all
jobs are and I jumped
why
um
that inner probably drive that I have in
a desire you know it wasn't something
that I I am an overthinker so that
probably made that process that those
couple of days where I had to make a
decision really intense but at the same
time I I like a challenge I love a
challenge and as much as I enjoy
punditry it was
you know it's it's challenging you want
to do it well you want to do it like you
know the top boys do it you have to put
everything into it and do it really well
um but I
I was when I wanted more I wanted to
to get on the grass I wanted to work
with pliers I wanted to try and improve
pliers I wanted to see if I could do it
it's probably more if I'm honest
probably can I do it and can I you know
do something and I was probably naive at
the time because the minute I walked
into Derby I was like wow this is
different you know I've got to hold them
I am now holding the meeting rather than
one of the 25 players sitting listening
and as much as you can think I'll do
that the minute you're walking and you
see those 25 faces and then you walk to
to say hello to Jeanette who's your
secretary and this one and the Playa
liaison I'm like oh
have I got to manage all this as well
and you do you have to sort of you know
the building is yours to kind of set the
tone so that first year some of it was
good you know I think sometimes in
management a great manager said to me
this
he said and he was all he's old he was
old and he said to me I think I was a
better manager when I was young in many
many ways he said because when I as I
got older I started to really sort of
overthink things and become a little bit
more cynical and you know you kind of go
over these things when I was young I
just make decisions and I was kind of
free to do it now I think there's a
balance to that experience is obviously
a clear can clearly help as you go along
you learn from mistakes but I unders I
understood his point when he said that
because I walked into Derby fresh
and I made a lot of mistakes because you
always will but I also had a freshness
and a bounce and a feeling inside I've
made it was kind of I want to take this
on and even though those moments of fear
you know that kind of when you feel like
a bit of imposter syndrome should I be
doing this and you've got hired it like
I remember having a whistle for the
first day and trying to in the training
pitch again
I'm going to blow this at the end of
training and I've been used to hearing
about this sounds so stupid I've been
used to hearing coaches go end of the
session stop I was a bit like what kind
of whistling I didn't want to do like a
little
I don't remember guys so let alone like
I've got a bigger team and set the
tactics and set the tone I was about all
those little stings and I think every if
they were honest I think you know people
in business yourself have all had those
the most simple things where you're
sitting there going wow that little
basic thing that I didn't consider is
now in my head yeah so I had a lot of
those and it was you know we got to the
playoff final we got to Wembley we lost
a final against Aston Villa to get to
the Premier League and I was so
disappointed for the club at Derby and
the owner had given me you know put
everything into me and we had a really
good year and got there and and we lost
it but in terms of um that first year of
management yeah my drive took me into it
and it was just a huge learning curve
and it was a really enjoyable year
imposter syndrome that I mean that's
somewhat linked to I guess your fear of
failure have you how does we talk a lot
about imposter syndrome on this podcast
because it's it's a it's a two it's a
double-sided thing on one hand you have
that feeling of um which I can recall
when I became a dragon on Dragon's Den
and I'm sat next to Peter Jones and
Deborah meaden Peter Jones has been
there for 21 Seasons since the beginning
Deborah Mead has been there for 17 and I
feel like I've just walked into the TV
yeah like your little whistle thing was
me like how do I say I'm out okay
exactly yeah um but being at peace with
that like how do you how have you dealt
with that in your career because you
went from being a pundit to managing a
club that was trying to get promotion to
then Chelsea these are huge leaps
forward yeah huge leaps forward um I
think uh I probably managed to get
coping mechanisms along the way that
have uh put that to the side and in
simple sense
I've become much more confident in
myself
um
away from work away from work actually
at home much more content in myself
again it probably comes back to being
really settled in relationship I am 45
now just turned
um but in the workplace as well I've
um that first year I remember feeling it
a lot and when I moved to Chelsea like
it should be a huge move it's a huge
jump to the Champions League club even
though I knew the club very well it was
a huge jump to deal with players of a
different stature Etc
um but I have found that imposter
syndrome thing much less and I had just
had coping mechanisms where I could kind
of just go
okay you're nervous taking this meeting
because you're a bit out of your comfort
zone you've got to be critical of a
player so you're going to go in on
someone you're going to show a video of
the game the other day and it's like
that's that's not a comfortable thing to
do always and I just probably have found
mechanisms to be able to go right you
almost go into the character and that
doesn't sound like an actor too much but
you're going I'm just going to go into
it and the more I think you do that
um the better you can be at coping with
that thing and then you just kind of
also have to get a realization that you
know you can feel a bit like that you
can feel a little bit like I'm out of my
comfort zone that you can make mistakes
I think showing that you can make a
mistake in front of a group of players
is not the worst thing you know they're
there to the players will get it you
make the smallest mistake one of those
25 at least is going to go well that
when he said that you know but I think
you've got to come to peace with that
and you can even joke about it after the
event because you'll keep making them so
I'll probably come come to terms we've
been able to deal with that side of it I
think I am I I was thinking then as
you're speaking actually about
my experience being a dragon and when um
one of the things I've always wondered
about players when they go from being a
player to a manager and especially when
they've been managed under a legend of a
manager so like I was thinking about
Ollie um oligon Associates Alex Ferguson
yeah how hard is it to like be yourself
versus be the successful manager that
you saw when like because even when I
became a dragon I think for the first
two years for sure I was
trying to be a dragon yeah not being
Steve yeah yeah and that's a that's a
journey but do you understand the
question I completely get it I get asked
it a lot and I'm not in not in exactly
the way you guys but I get asked by
football journalists who say so what did
you take out of all your managers you
play and all this stuff and you know
just to jump to one would be Jose
Mourinho it's a good one to jump to
because he had a huge effect on my
career as many did but he came and
probably elevated me in my playing
career to a different level and what I
learned from Jose and as I then went on
to managers after that was the the thing
that impressed me about Joseph there was
a real authentic nature to him like when
he was self-confident overconfident kind
of brash Jose that's him you know that
was him and you know maybe he's playing
up a bit now and again but I saw him
behind the scenes and then when I've
worked with other managers that maybe
were probably striving to be something
like that and I think after Joe said it
was a there were a generation of
managers that were a bit like okay I'm
gonna wear this I'm going to wear the
scarf and I'm going to type them with
you know or act a bit kind of you know
say those things he used to say and does
say
um and I didn't I didn't buy it as such
and even from outside when you're
watching manager you know you have that
impression so I think probably you go
okay can I take things from all these
managers for my journalist question yeah
I did from Sam and not from others blah
blah but when you come to it you have to
be yourself because you'll get found out
and you're probably right in my early
days I also did that I did my first
meeting at Derby again was like right
I'm an ex player so anyone who wants to
knock on my door come and see me and
I'll you know I'll tell you the truth
and we'll have it out or I'll you know
I'll give you the answer that you want
and I remember like the first three
weeks they kept knocking on the dock I
was like and I was like to do another
meeting so Lads if you're gonna knock on
my door come to me with like facts of
why you should play you know how's your
training you know come with something I
don't want you just I didn't play on
Saturday like Monday morning there's
like five on the door knocking and you
know open policy in a door is good but
at the same time it was like those are
like learning curves for me like I
probably said that that phrase because I
needed to say it right yeah you know
what I mean because there's a place it's
really so really cool things to play I
want the manager to be able to speak to
me all the time and when I said it I was
like Sam what I thought I should say and
then you know you learn a little lesson
you know my daughter hopefully is still
open now but at the same time I was
probably playing the part of a manager
um and then you kind of go now what's
real to me here you know like do I have
to say that it's another way of saying
it or whatever
and that kind of brings me to a question
which is wouldn't it therefore have been
great for you to go and learn those
lessons when the stakes weren't so high
um because even the stakes are super
high at Derby because you're figuring
out Frank the manager there yeah and
sometimes you don't want to be at the
poker table playing with real money yeah
but but that's my life you know I I know
what you're saying and I think as a as
an as a I think I think I can say this I
think it's an English ex-player Stephen
Gerrard others that have played a high
level you know I've played 100 times to
our country Etc I think pla the the the
the culture in this country is the sort
of say right now you're a manager go and
own your stripes there because being a
player of that level doesn't mean you're
going to be a manager so I think that
could have been a route where you can
kind of get a lot of fair play he went
down to you know division two and he's
showing what he's doing and there's a
process the reality is that path wasn't
for me you know and Mel Morris asked me
to take the Derby job it was a question
yeah challenge yes please I'll take the
challenge you know when I won you there
and Chelsea came to me it was a
difficult time at a transfer ban you
know and as I was leaving it was a real
transition young players what's going to
be there next year I think probably some
big managers just have turned it down I
know that so it was like yeah you know
what challenge I'll take it so you know
I don't want to try and recreate the
past I think why didn't I do that
because you know I've managed in four
years of management I've had some
experience and for all the you know
you'll always get criticism you know you
leave Chelsea people will criticize you
you go to Everton you stay up you get
relegated people to criticize you but at
the same time I'm I am resilient enough
to deal with all that stuff now that's
been probably the beauty of having a
long career in football and so my my
thing is I can manage Derby I can go and
manage Chelsea and do it to a good level
as well because I've had successes as
well as when it hasn't gone so well I
mean that's the modern day manager so I
think I probably crammed in a lot of
work in four years and and working at a
high end level with players that will
test you and question you because
Champions League players question you so
it's just my path
the um I mean that's it so Champions
League players questioning you
you don't ever assume that happens I
mean I don't know a ton about what goes
on in the foot in the room but yeah no I
think what when I say that I think in um
the modern day player particularly I
think in previous series it probably
would have been more vocal and you know
but now the modern day player have a
good understanding of the game a lot of
them have been coached in academies very
very well to a high level uh when they
get to the top they also when you when
you you know are setting out tactics
they they'll have questions for you and
and you have to buy into that because
you know the reality is what you want is
them to understand what you want or
sometimes they say something like okay
we might change that you know or
whatever it might be and I think when
you get to the to the top level in
football you have to understand the best
day out now there's a they have to
understand you're the boss and you have
to man they're very clear but at the
same time there will be a lot of
suppliers that will challenge you would
you mean by that boss come to you what
what but what about if that happens you
know and you get a lot more of that and
you I remember reading Pep Guardiola
once said that even if you don't know
the answer pretend that you know the
answer to say that yeah and you know so
you there is a version of that because
you know when you're getting things
thrown at you sometimes it's like you
know football is an active game and I
think sometimes in the modern day we
look at you know on Monday Night
Football you see after the event you
know they should have done this or
people are imagining what um you know
Pep Guardiola or yoga club or fantastic
coaches are doing and it must be this
amazing complicated thing for sure
they're amazing coaches but it's an
active game so if you can give a good
message then the rest is down to the
players at the same time so you just
have to prep them as well as you can but
they will they will challenge it um
that that got me thinking about when I
sat with um Jamie carragher and he was
telling me about all the managers he had
had
um above him when he was playing at
Liverpool and then hearing from all the
United players Nanny and ever and Gary
and Rio about what Sir Alex was like and
and then reading through all of all of
the managers that you've worked under I
mean there's so many of them from Jose
to angelotti
um so many of them I mean there was one
period where I mean the managers were
being sacked every six months it feels
like at Chelsea yeah
um and the thing I garnered from all of
them is that there is actually not a
successful blueprint to being a
successful manager there's not like a
blueprint there's not a way to be a
successful manager some of them are
tactician some of them are man managers
yeah is that accurate it's very accurate
I I agree with that um and Chelsea is a
bit a bit of a unique example because in
my time there they change manager a lot
as you say and I don't think that's the
most productive way to to run a business
in an idle way in terms of football
because in an ideal way you kind of go
we trust in this manager this work with
it here's the idea we're going to go
with it and of course it's the
prerogative of the honest to change that
what we did have at the time was a
fantastic unit within the dressing room
of high Talent High personality that led
the dressing room so we had a great team
and a great Squad and when I say that we
had a spine of players of John Terry
myself Peter check Didier drummer Ashley
Cole I could go on and there were
personalities and sometimes would Clash
but we knew our place we knew we could
rely on him I knew that I would run for
him and he'd run for me and we also had
high Talent of a player that would video
drama would score in every final pretty
much so I think we kind of like bridge
that gap of changing managers
um and so I think when you come back to
the the question of you know great
managers I think sometimes it's um it's
a case of compromising with what you're
working with you have to get the people
skills right and that's the first thing
I learned as a manager for difference
and plan is that you have to deal with
people you've got to try and Inspire
every player within that group and
Inspire the collective so every player
will have a different motivation it
might be money for one it might be I
want to be the best striker in the world
it might be I want to be in front of him
because I don't like him whatever that
is you try and tap into and I think the
greatest of managers my opinion and I
played under as you say a lot and I'm
trying to be one is that they give you
something that you believe in that you
can strive for and you will buy into and
this and it's and sometimes it's a messy
process you know you watch Man City lift
that treble people just now and you
listed the Champions League there will
be so many things we don't know behind
the scenes this player is unhappy had to
do this all these things that come
together and give you that amazing
moment and I had that as Chelsea as a
player and so if you just say go and
tell me what a great managers and me to
go here's an answer for you in one
minute it's like impossible to say man
management that's what all the United
players said about Sir Alex it's the
only thing that they all are completely
agree on they would say he was the best
man manager and um an inconsistent
leader which is an interesting concept
and what I mean by inconsistent leader
is he would treat Gary in a different
way to Nanny to Evra and they all told
me their stories and Rio as well told me
about when
um Sir Alex brought that bottle of
whiskey to his ill grandfather's bedside
and Rio doesn't know how we knew the
favorite brand of whiskey and how we
knew his Grandad was Ill yeah Gary told
me he used to tap him on the shoulder
and say think about your fault your
grandfather's shrapnel which is still in
his shoulder when you go out there today
that kind of bespoke tailored approach
to leadership which is seems to be Sir
Alex Ferguson's um highest accent made
sure and I think that runs into the
modern day like we get very caught up in
in tactics and rightly so the game's
moved on from those days tactically but
those people and and you'll know
yourself you know inspiring people and
as you say to be bespoke and kind of
individualize it and look within the
group and have moments because you know
if you ask me about my career you go
like Frank would you remember out of
those 20 years like do you remember the
meeting where Jose you know played you a
bit higher up I wouldn't he said do you
remember the time that Jose said those
words to you that inspired you and it
could be like one sentence I go yeah I
remember that do you know I mean like
things that stick with me that I
remember that made me go I'm gonna I'm
gonna run for this man he's gonna make
me better you know and I had that and I
think so what you just said there about
Sir Alex Ferguson I think the great
managers to have you look at and they
have it in different styles Pep
Guardiola yoga and klopp everyone will
have a different style of that and
that's a huge part to their success I
think
what do you like as a manager
if you had to do like a self-assessment
I think you go you can ask somebody else
now I don't know
um I know I try and be uh close to the
players as I say my open door thing but
at the same time I think I I try and
find a balance I I think the important
thing for me was when I became a manager
was to not expect anybody any player to
see it how I saw it or train how I
trained or whatever you know for good or
for bad and you have to that's I think a
bit of a skill which you know sir Alex
probably had perfectly so I try and be
as close to the players I try and learn
all the time I'm a coach I want a coach
on the pitch I think my biggest pleasure
is coaching and improving players and
particularly young players and I've had
the you know the fortune to work with
some really good jump players at Derby I
had Mason Mountain Harry Wilson for Kayo
tomorrow and then at Chelsea obviously
Tommy Abraham extra ones and yeah and
Anthony Gordon Etc so I think they are
the real sponges that are a real
pleasure to work with and I love that
part of it being able to speak to them
and you do find and it's a reality and I
remember being an older player you're a
bit more cynical when you're a younger
player you're like they're like a blank
canvas and you can you know push them
and try and push them in that so I'm
probably quite intense with the younger
players
um I try and be as I say inclusive and
I'm always trying to learn
um and and try and just trying to be me
it's a hard answer that one I think
you'd have to ask you know maybe a
member of Staff or a player I picked the
right player because you probably get
different answers because when you work
with I worked at Chelsea recently with
30 players I picked you pick 11 for a
game and like eight subs and the subs
eight Outfield Subs the subs don't
really like you because they're not
starting let alone the other 10 you know
so it's a really hard balance with a
modern Squad to to get there but you
have to try and make it inclusive
because if you're going to get anywhere
you've got to go all together and that
was one of the problems for being
Chelsea this season 30 players is it's
not possible to manage that on the other
this isn't maybe this is even more
difficult question what are you trying
to work on then what are the the areas
of as a leader as a manager you're
trying to work on because I can think of
for myself I can think of a number of
areas where I go you know what that is
still somewhere where I have a recurring
when I reflect in hindsight I go I
need to get better here what is that for
you quite a few things I would say
because
um the other thinker thing comes in
again and I'm a bit of a perfectionist
so you know I always want to try and
improve
um
you know my tactical and and the
personal touch and those things but I
think when I came away from Chelsea I
realized I needed to delegate time
better that was something I was
certainly not great at I've got you you
have your staff for a reason they're
there to support you in a time they'll
be better than you at certain things so
give them it you know and give them that
you obviously oversee that thing and I
probably spent a lot of time
um trying to be across everything
whereas really I probably could have
come back from that and save my own
energy so I think I'll certainly try and
improve that side I did between Chelsea
and Everton for sure to try and save
that I can
um
uh be pretty overreactive sometimes if I
see things I don't like in terms of and
when I study it's always effort or
standards and I think I I am that's one
of the things I'm biggest on is that you
know if you're going to make a mistake
in a game I've got no problem with that
um if you are going to not run for your
teammate if you're not going to train
through the week with an idea that when
I train on Monday that's got a direct
relation to what Saturday is going to
look like if that feeling isn't there
then I probably can either get upset
with a player or maybe kind of distance
to player and I think when you're
working with a group you have to be
careful of that one because not every
player has your mentality so you have to
either try and bring them up to the
party
or if not then they're going to have to
not be there if you're going to have
success as far as I see it and that
sounds really harsh but it's one of
those things where you go if you can
work in a in a in a team and you're
going to take it to exactly where you
want it to be
out of that Squad of 25 if you've got
that kind of I remember manager would
say this you have you know that there's
your six or seven you know you're going
to get every day you're going to train
you're going to come in they're going to
be so active every day you're going to
have the middle group or somewhere in
the middle and you had the ones that
maybe I'm just coming to training you
know or you know I'm a bit sore today
you know that sounds simplistic to say
but you have to try and work if you want
to work in a full Direction and go okay
those six are with me right you try and
Garner them those are the ones that can
kind of pass the message those ones in
the middle okay can we keep pushing and
working between me and the staff to try
and improve them and then the ones that
are there come on can we help them can
they come with us if not you have to
speak to the club and that's where a
club has to be aligned to go okay if you
want to go in that direction and we're
with you okay we'll work that out and
that becomes a recruitment or players
leaving the club I mean that's you know
that's that's the reality that has to be
and that's the reality of business as
well um uh I've just finished writing
this book and it talks about these three
lines and basically says if everybody in
think about a person in your team and if
everybody in the team represented their
cultural values right which is what
you're talking about with your six
disciples there if everybody represented
the cultural values with the bar with
the overall Barbie raised or lowered and
you'll have some people who would
imagine if everyone was like them like a
Frank you know a Frank Lampard or a John
Terry how high that the cultural values
would be raised then you have other
people where if everyone was like them
you'd be relegated yeah and and what to
do with those three cohorts of bar
raises maintainers and barlowers and
that's kind of what I that's a good way
of putting it I mean I and I think the
I think the bar raises can take some
time to raise the bar
but the balras can get you very quickly
yeah yeah that's kind of my experience
because that kind of when that kind of
that consistency or whatever it is you
know like this oh why are we doing this
train why do we have to do or whatever
that kind of negativity which can slip
in can be really contagious and in a
winning Sport and as much as we're
talking here about great managers
winning is is everything you know and
it's that's obviously relative to if
you're a man city or in Everton like
Everton will win kind of 35 40 of games
at Best at the moment and you know that
so you know that they're going to be 65
or so percent of weeks whereas not that
great the balras can go and they lower
it quickly whereas you know if you can
get the razors to take control
um then they that then I think generally
you can kind of get there so it's a
really important thing that's probably
one of the interesting things that as I
say that the transition from player to
manager trying to get that because if
you whether you were one of the bar
raisers or you're in the middle group or
the Law Group when you become a manager
it doesn't matter what you were you've
got to kind of get there get the scripts
of what it is and kind of just push
um so that that's something
I'm trying to improve on everything all
the time and coming away sometimes give
you nice time to to have perspective and
just kind of go I'm going to put it in
line a little bit and it looks a bit
different to what I thought before that
experience in yeah this is I mean I
guess this is why some of the the
greatest managers of all time they hold
on to their Gary Neville's and their you
know their disciples yeah and I've
spoken to Gary about this Gary said to
me in fact when we're filming
Dragonstone recently he said for those
last two years Sir Alex kept me there
because of the my impact on the dressing
room yeah not my impact on the pitch but
on the dressing room I could keep keep
the standard High
um in the modern world I was reading the
stats managers are getting fired quicker
than ever sure and it almost it must be
so difficult to establish Authority when
the play is aware
um that the manager is going to be the
one to be taken out if things don't go
well in business it's not like that
right as a CEO because I own the company
and I am the manager yeah so if there's
if there's Behavior underneath me that's
toxic and contagious I can act yeah the
center of authorities with me yeah
whereas it seems like in a club the
center of authority is really like the
chairman the owner yeah
um sometimes the manager manages manages
to get there but in the modern world we
don't let managers last long enough to
build that Authority no and that's the
tough world that it is and I think you
know you probably have to earn the right
as a manager to get to a club maybe when
you look at the perfect models right at
the top you know and Manchester City is
a good one to talk about now I work with
the city group I have one year playing
there and I could see when I was there
they hadn't arrived at that point but I
could see with the stability from above
and how it run and the vision it was
like we're gonna get they were going to
get somewhere because they had a great
structure and it wasn't like it was
going to get pulled and pushed and
pulled for you know a small period of
time so we're going to get there and
then they hired pep you know they had
not difficult first year but the first
year was kind of him finding his way I
need this I need this and then he's
fantastic coach and they have great
players but if you don't have that
aligned thing where as you said the most
important person at the club in the
modern day in my opinion is the owner
and it is a structure at the top because
they really they set the time maybe it's
financially maybe it's with the sporting
directors and recruitment because you'll
be as good as the players you recruit a
great manager again I don't want to sit
here and drop names that said to me was
when we finished it um my first thing
that Everton we just stayed up skin of
our teeth and he was like randomly to
say congratulations he went Frank don't
rest 80 of your work for next season
will be done in the next month so it was
recruitment so like 20 will be what you
do next year and now the 80 is like
bringing the right players so I think
you know like that that alignment as I
keep saying there is something that you
know if you can get
um and and I know I know they're great
owners and they're great supporting
directors and Recruitment and the
manager and the manager is so you know
critical to it but when you look at last
season 13 managers left their Club I
think it's 13 out of 20 clubs and you're
talking about you know Antonio Conte and
you're talking about Thomas you know
manages at huge successes it shows you
that the landscape's changed to the
point where the manager will be culpable
and I think you have to come you have to
be at peace with that but you have to
try and get to the point very quickly
where you have success and that's tough
because winning is and the modern world
of social media and reaction is like get
him out you know get the next one in you
know sometimes maybe they're right maybe
the manager is culpable but other times
there are there are many things and to
come back to your original point about
players and those stallwalls and the
Gary Neville's and the James Milner at
Liverpool in the last whatever years you
know people on the outside I think it's
very easy to look at the superstars and
most sellers in there I I can guarantee
you and I know this firsthand from
speaking to people people like James
Milner and Jordan Henderson
have absolutely set the tone of that
club for the last whatever years during
great success and if you don't have that
kind of those drivers within that top
six all right I think it's very hard to
sustain its success or get success and
again back to my Chelsea days we had
that naturally and we were actually
quite diverse so it was like John Terry
was like the real Captain like heart on
his sleeve you could see it every day I
was probably like more quiet but like a
trainer and standards and myself and
trying to hope that that would bring
people with us Didier was this sort of
charismatic from the Ivory Coast and
kind of brought in you know that section
of the dressing room and he took a pair
of checks about five languages Ashley
Carl was such a nice lad and you know
best left back the country's probably
ever seen so we had this amazing group
and like if others aren't going to
follow that then very quickly it was
like you're not going to make it
regardless of the manager change it's
like you want you won't survive the
dressing room and that's kind of how it
was it reminded me of a quote that I've
said on this podcast before which is
when the culture is strong the new
people become the culture and when the
coaches week the culture becomes the new
people right because when you have those
that cord of disciples someone coming in
they'll stand out so much yeah if they
don't fit in with you Didier Frank Etc
that they'll instantly be expelled yeah
but when the culture is weak someone
will come in and they'll actually
influence yeah the Dynamics and that's
when you're really from my experience in
business is when you're really really
screwed no that's interesting because I
think in football as well because it's
so topical it's just so much
conversation around it that you know I
managed to Chelsea for seven weeks I
think I did and I spoke a lot about
standards and I was a bit I'm not saying
standards to him I saw you say in every
post match yeah I know it wasn't like
not trying to be clever and go I'm just
gonna this is my line now standards but
it was like it was very evident to me
when I walked in um because you know
having worked at Chelsea as a coach
before and as a player I I do know the
standards I do know that and this is not
a direct criticism of the players either
because when I look at the player
situations where they were and I
understood how it'd been a long year I
walked in on with 10 games to go they've
been there for the whole season and a
lot of players were not playing they
were probably going to leave which we're
seeing now whether they were going to
leave with a club wanted some leave or
they or they hadn't been playing with
the previous managers and I could see in
training that it wasn't the level wasn't
enough it wasn't enough to go and get a
result you know whoever you might want
to say a Brentford at home or at let
alone Real Madrid it wasn't enough and I
can say this now because I said this to
the players and again it's not an
individual criticism that applies
because I also when you're trying to say
you want to be a manager you have to
have a personal understanding of like
human nature if I'm a player that's not
been planned for the last seven months
and I think I'm leaving in four weeks
time I'm probably going to struggle to
motivate that player you know I'm not
I've Got Magic one to motivate that
player so I think it was that probably
the my biggest learning out of Chelsea
was when you talk about standards and
culture I think people get it talks
about standards you know what he talks
about his culture and I you know maybe I
had to catch myself on and not cite
every interview but at the same time it
was if you don't have a building block
of Standards then that winning culture
that everyone goes what's winning
culture you go well then me up I'll try
and explain to you but it has to start
with a basic standard and which for me
is always like trained to a level where
you're going to push your teammate he's
going to push you and then we're going
to be as competitive as it can be we
don't have to win not every team can win
you know this Manchester City pretty
much win the league every year at the
minute so what's success for everybody
else for Brighton it's coming six or
whatever for Newcastle it's wow
Champions League that's huge success so
everyone has a version but my guess is
those teams that have over performed
outperformed they've got something there
which is a basic standard that they just
build on and you know to be fair to
Chelsea they're in a position now where
that's needs to be worked on again it's
a transitional time
that brings me to the quote you said
after your Newcastle game which was the
standards collectively have dropped I
can be honest now um because it's your
last game I might not see them for some
time anymore but low standards are a
symptom of something further Upstream
that's happened and we saw this at
Manchester United I'm a big man united
fan I've seen a a decade five years of
just like chaos where we've got these
amazing players but one plus one equals
1.5 we call it dis economies of scale
yeah in great culture one plus one
equals three you know where you can make
great average players together play yeah
amazing the football of their lives the
furthest Upstream thing where did the
standard start to slip what is the thing
that happens in a club like Chelsea in
your experience when you went back there
that had caused that dropping of
Standards which we now saw on the pitch
with your sort of 10 games there well I
think um
when I was tongue-in-cheek by the way
when I said I'm not going to see them
again because it was a bit like as I
said I wouldn't say I've hadn't said it
to him and I've said it a few times but
the position of it was that and I think
the biggest thing about the standards
thing was the the size of the squad it
was the the motivation of players that
um you're gonna not play or you're out
of the Champions League squad or these
things like it's like asking you know
one of you you I don't know you maybe
love doing this this is like one of your
great mom you know I want to sit and you
want to speak to all these fantastic
people that you speak to so thanks for
your prep Steven now Peter Jones is
going to do it
cheers how long are you going to go with
that yeah so and I think in football
that's is that's a challenge with 20 or
so players which is the modern Squad but
with with Chelsea it's got very big to
the point where it's just how I felt
where I can say you know I'm not
criticizing that player for a dropping
standards I want to try and get
something out of him because I had a
short period I want to try and get
something out of him so I'll try but
then when you actually look at it you
kind of go yeah but he's had this for a
long time where he's not playing so he's
not now being competitive with that
player who is playing so that plays
pretty comfortable too because he's not
pushing him so you kind of get this
thing where you're like you know we
probably took it for granted in some of
my better days at Chelsea when we were
successful of like this kind of thing
that works you know it wasn't even a
thing you said you know you didn't have
to sort of have a meeting every day and
go you know one of those standards
culture you know a nice pie chart and
that's what that is it was almost like
this is what we do and at the minute
sometimes for whatever reason there's a
transition of maybe new ownership you
know not everything was perfect before
the new ownership I was there before no
ownership as well like to find
consistency as Chelsea would really want
of winning Premier League titles and
challenging has been a good few years
now so I think that getting the squad
right
um being able probably a fresh voice as
a manager coming in now who's obviously
a fantastic manager with a great record
to come in and go no this is the way and
now the squad looks compact you're going
to compete with each other and try and
create a great environment everyone is a
great environment to have success you
know you cannot have a success with that
team spirit and togetherness so when I
got there I could just see that that the
the spirit and the togetherness was not
then it was nothing bad you know like it
was not bad to go for the week I could
just see like you have to train Elite to
be elite you have to and that's not you
know the Monday players play every few
days sometimes when I say that it's not
like show me how many Sprints you can do
every day it's like okay if we're doing
prep tomorrow give me that intensity of
of thought about what what this is for
you and I mean sit in your face but in
the Chelsea when you did that you had to
go right if I want to really focus on
the 10 or 11 for tomorrow that means
I've got to have like 18 players over
there and you kind of saw the body
language as they walked off some of them
that they were like again because
they've been having it all season some
of them so I on a human level I
completely understood and in the end it
was like I came back here because
obviously this was an opportunity to
come to my club you know Chelsea a Club
close to my heart but as soon as I got
in I realized that probably I thought
you know what 30 players but I can
motivate in six seven weeks because it's
not like a long term thing I can come in
and be fresh
um but in terms of when I came in I
noticed very quickly that some players
are probably thinking about the season's
going to Peter out and what's the future
going to look like and that was a a
difficult situation it never crossed my
mind that's the size of the squad has
such a big impact but it makes perfect
sense because you need that sort of
healthy competition and I believe your
first team was was it 32 players
yeah which is more than you're allowed
to register for the Premier League or
Champions League so you had this kind of
surplus of a lot of players a few a few
are always injured probably you know so
that comes down a bit but it's a surplus
and it's a surplus of
um yeah the the the makeup of the squad
is International Players generally
because if there were a couple of young
players but when you try and build a
squad it'll be like this is you know
this is my core kind of 15 or 16 and
then you go and maybe these these two
experienced players that might not need
to play really and then we've got these
kids that are waiting and they're like
just happy to be there they want to play
they're going to be training and if you
give them an opportunity they'll be like
but when you have like international
players in a big number then of course
you know you're telling Internationals
you've got to stay at home it's not it's
not easy and you know to have the
conversation every Friday with them and
get them lined up coming in is also not
easy for your own energy do you know
what I mean so I that's not easy I don't
care how what kind of uh a manager you
are like it's like next you're not
playing okay next you're not playing you
know like whatever however you try and
box that up to a player eventually
they'll probably have I know I'm not
playing you know like stop telling me
this do you know what I mean so I
think you know that that was an
interesting learning curve for me like
an interim job is is what it is
um and I kept getting asked you know
people it was kind of frustrating but at
times like are you finding this so hard
and you find this hard I was like you
know what I'm back home in the club that
I love you know a fantastic training
around I'm doing everything I can in
this job to try and improve it but there
were I knew behind the scenes there are
a lot of things you know myself and my
staff we want to improve but we want to
coach we want to sort of when you when
you lack those Basics and as I say I I
think there's an understanding the club
that it has to change now I think it has
to it has to change then if you like
those Basics then it it's really hard to
get where you want to get to what how
does that happen though so there's these
32 players and then Chelsea spends more
money than it I think anyone's ever
spent in a window in that sort of
January window you bring in all of these
players on these long contracts which
I've never heard before I think it was
like eight year contracts and they're
all like class amazing individual
players
um is that a is that because the the new
owner doesn't understand those dynamics
of football because that's what it
seemed like for me I thought either this
is a genius or an idiot yeah you know I
don't want to criticize anyone like on a
personal level but as a fan looking and
I go signing these players on eight year
contracts they're great players spending
all this money the impact on culture
when you just throw stars in at such
quantity yeah it looked it looked like
an experience and um naivety I think
that's
um
that's understood now in terms of what
it's meant with those 30 players and I
think you've seen that now in that
already I think I'm six seven eight
players have left
so I think but the intentions are
certainly good I know that because I
work the owners gave me an opportunity
to go in there and I had a good
relationship with them their intentions
to do a good job at Chelsea are amazing
they want to take the club and be the
best you know they have great intentions
so now I think those younger players now
with
um a new voice a new manager the squad
come inside I think they'll have a
greater chance to show what they've got
anyway and they're talented players and
you know I remember being in Chelsea
when Eden Hazard arrived and pre-season
was like is this kid maybe a bit lazy
looking you know it was a bit kind of
strolling around this kid definitely and
then that first season it was like I
know it's really good and then on the
second and Thursdays like now this kid's
one of the best players the Premier
League's seen or whatever see everyone
video drug but like you can go through
all these players who are who are like
absolute Legends now if you're asking
you know those five six seven players to
come in and hit the ground running in a
difficult moment for the club it's
understandable so I think as a Chelsea
fan you know you look at it and kind of
go right okay that that is positive
there's Talent there okay it needs to be
worked with now I'm sure that you can
see the squads getting trimmed and as I
can say you know hand on heart the
intentions of the owners is absolutely
no they've spent that money because they
want to do well now if they're going to
address the situation a bit that's their
strategy going forward but I do think
you know you'll see players like Enzo
Fernandez Madrid and these players
madoiki young players they're going to
develop and they're going to be big
players for the club they you have to
get the structure writing the strategy
right going forward what what's a my
thing is that adding like I know six or
seven of these players all at once
pretty much halfway through the season
um in a squad that's already struggling
to figure out who it is under Graham
Potter
um it begs the question like who's doing
the recruitment here because at other
clubs it's a much more Strate it seems
like a much more strategic and
intentional and football driven approach
to recruitment whereas from what I saw
at Chelsea and I have actually spoken to
some people at Chelsea who are involved
in recruitment it seemed like chaos yeah
I mean I wasn't there for that period
right so that was in I got there in
April and like so January was the last
window and obviously they spent last
summer but I think the the change of
ownership and then obviously there's
some people moved on who were in the
hierarchy of the club and so they was
changing so there was a big change of
structure so I think you have to give
um some time and some leeway for the
process and they're certainly now are
sporting directors recruitment people in
there having work with them who are very
talented very hungry you know good to go
and I think now it will be
um up to them to take the club forward
they haven't signed bad players I think
this maybe the the
strategy of bringing them all in at that
time you know looks a bit excitable at
the minute as in terms of there's a lot
of players to success but I think
probably there's a long game and I think
there's a plan and I think probably most
huge clubs like Chelsea have had a
version of what this period is
Manchester United you mentioned there
Arsenal for quite a long time Liverpool
for periods you know so I think um we
have to give different I think to to
over judge now when I think they have
signed some good players would be to to
be over critical I think at the moment I
think that the proof will be now how
these players develop once now it feels
a bit more settled going forward I think
that's I think that's all true I think
um what's the optimal way for player
recruitment to happen in your opinion
because I've you often hear about these
stories of where you know I know will
take charge of a club and then they'll
just decide who they want which is
probably what I'd be like if I was an
owner I think I would like football
manager I think I just buy who I who I
want to buy who I think looks good um
Manchester United suffered with that it
felt like our decisions were commercial
decisions as opposed to footballing
decisions then when Eric 10 hugs come in
it feels a bit more like kids football
decisions and what in your opinion and
then I did speak to some people at
Chelsea because I actually went to I was
invited to uh sit with Richard Arnold in
a couple of the Manchester United
Executives and when we played Chelsea at
Old Trafford I was in the director's box
okay so I sat with the like sport the
new sporting director at Chelsea yeah um
and he said there's now two sporting
directors I believe yeah
um so it's interesting to talk to them
um but what is the about the optimal way
for recruitment to happen in your
opinion well I think
um with a with a you have to understand
what you want the the philosophy and the
identity of the club to be so for
instance I think Manchester City are
quite firm in the idea when they the pep
guardios come in and they're sporting
directors have worked at Barcelona
previously with him that this is how we
want to play this is a manager that's
going to deliver that style so here's
how we recruit for that style Chelsea
has always been a bit different for me
the the beautiful game the ticket
package is called a man city has not
been Chelsea style it's been more of a
winning machine and different kind of
way you know and in my day was more of a
powerful team that was probably were
good on the eye but we were not that
kind of you know past past we were like
powerful and effective so I think you
have to understand what you want to be
and once you get to that point you
probably the first thing is to recruit a
coach that you know Works within that
and then you know that's the kind of
Coach you want because this is one obey
those conversations or an interview
process and then once you get to that
point I think the recruitment has to be
joined up depending on how active the
owner wants to be and I I respect and
appreciate active owners as their clubs
their prerogative and then the sporting
directors and the manager and then
obviously recruitment which brings all
the data analysis into the picture and
it has to be joined up and it has you
have to be all very confident by the
time you want to bring in a player that
you're going yeah this is the play we
want to bring in they're always one or
two or three options because you may not
get Target number one but I think you
have to be able to recruit for the style
that you want to be so the coach really
has to have a big buy into that as well
but you as a coach in the Monday you
understand and the process I appreciate
being aligned and having other people
not just responsible for who you're
bringing in but also like giving me
something that I don't know I'm not
there siphon through the data you know
they have to show you that data and
here's the reasons why the videos people
have watched them and also the
personality of the player because not to
say you're going to sign you know 10
James milners because their character's
amazing and they're professionalism but
you need to know they're going to come
in and address room who's going to
they're going to be good for the
dressing room and they're going to help
in terms of how you drive forward in
terms of their personality
one of the one of the key questions I
want to answer and I wanted to ask you
today is like how would you have what
would have had to happen to avoid the
situation where you had that
unhealthy culture at Chelsea behind the
scenes in those when you came back in as
the interim what would have what could
you have done to avoid that happening
say you're in the you know if you were
if you could in hindsight have a wand
and correct things that were done I get
the first point which was about smaller
Squad size
um what else what else avoids that from
my from my first day in there you're
you're a um a genie and you can know
what you know about the what you
inherited there what would have had to
be done previously to avoid you
inheriting that
the smallest Squad is the first thing
that I got yeah smaller Squad I mean
some things are just a bit
you know like there there are phases you
know and I think Chelsea
um they won the Champions League I left
they won the Champions League like three
or four months after I left and at that
point you kind of go okay where's the
next move and you kind of go at how was
recruitment then how what things worked
then and maybe some players left during
that period maybe in terms of
recruitment you wanted to bring in maybe
some people be like the the future in
terms of that I when I was at Chelsea
before I wanted to bring in Declan rice
I was like this this kid's gonna be the
the captain of Chelsea for the next you
know 10 years it didn't happen but
anyway but I think in terms of those
things it's hard for me to sit here and
kind of dissect you know other people's
work in that period in between you know
like I would have maybe had an idea it
wasn't my idea because I'd already left
the club so maybe like when I came in it
was it's not it's really hard for me to
kind of dissect all those moves you know
I came into what I came into so you know
that's I think I'd probably be a little
bit casual for me to kind of go they
should have done this you know like yeah
it's a hindsightly one that's yeah it's
kind of me wondering just because I've
been a man united fan and I've seen that
happen and I saw obviously Sir Alex
Ferguson leave and then we just had
these 10 years of what I describe as
like confused chaos and I'm trying to
figure out almost like how an innocer
Alex Ferguson situation how he we could
have avoided that if at all possible
yeah I mean it's such a big figure
um that's difficult isn't it I don't
know enough about Manchester United but
I do I can understand why after Sir Alex
leaving and also pivotal players will
probably come into the end of their time
during the same time as him leaving to
replace that and keep moving forward I
mean you can there might have been
mistakes and it's not my thing but I can
understand why it feels like a long
period for a club the size of Manchester
United but it just shows you that I
think that how Cutthroat and fast moving
this premier league is because if you
come off the gas guess in terms of
recruitment or whatever or you have a
bad time coming back up there people
think oh yeah you know you're Chelsea
you've been a Champions League again
next year or Arsenal you'll be there
like I still had to work a long time to
come back and challenge for The League
last year with a lot of work and you
know people were criticizing in the
beginning and now you know they've
worked together and stuck together and
recruited really well and now they're
ready to go so I mean it's not I don't
think we should expect even you being a
Manchester United fan or me having a
Chelsea head on that next year it's
going to be great like it's everyone
else is moving forward too you know
when you get that call the interim Court
you've just left Everton yeah um you're
out of work
um grandpot has been released from his
responsibilities
what's going through your head when they
say we want you to come back in and take
an into a managing role
if I was a flyer on the wall and when
that phone call happens
um you nearly were yeah
so I know yeah I mean I wasn't going to
tell the story but no I could tell it
for you I was coming to meet you and I
rang you to say sorry I'm gonna become
Chelsea manager that that meeting they
you know people arrived at my house that
afternoon so well just because you
didn't tell me that exactly you said I
can't come and I Can't Tell You Why then
I told you after that yeah you told me
okay but I'm not an idiot yeah all right
okay I kind of inferred maybe okay so
anyway I mean no I think probably the
the it's normal that I consider
everything and you know I probably
considered it as in
firstly it's a club very close to my
heart as I said before
a challenge of working and it was like
we had two games against Real Madrid and
we had the season to pan out we had a
difficult running so I was fully aware
of that
um and I know maybe like you know I do
love a challenge if that challenge had
been probably any other club other than
Chelsea I probably would have said no I
was very happy to be at home as such in
that period I wasn't fighting to get a
job at that period
um so it was probably a bit of head and
heart
um I'm not sure what probably heart
probably was a bit more substantial in
this one than the head because I suppose
if you look back again we're in that
hindsight position but you know what
were my neck what will my positive
outcomes what are my negative ones the
minute we didn't get through against
Real Madrid which probably a lot of
people would have bet on
um you're kind of into that zone of end
of season and what you're playing for as
a club like Chelsea and that's not the
normal Chelsea should be playing for
something and in the end we played for
not so much and of course another reason
my motivation come down so I probably
could have been a bit more ahead of the
game than that whether that would have
changed my mind I don't have a regret
about doing it I went back there if
people from the outside want to
um you know
criticize or have a view on it from the
outside for six or seven weeks work I've
got no problem with that I worked at
Chelsea before I worked at other clubs
and you know it's another experience it
wasn't my most favorite experience in my
footballing career I won't lie but it's
an experience and I have learned out of
it not so not so much but I've mentioned
a few of the things
not your favorite experience did you
enjoy it be honest
um I enjoyed the first few weeks I felt
like I was back at Cobham I know so many
people there I was like into the
challenge
in the middle bit I probably started to
understand more that there's there's a
lack of you know what we've spoken about
um and then in the last week we had Man
City away Manchester United away in
Newcastle at home as I run in and I was
like okay let's get through this week
because I could see that the players
were ready for the season to finish you
know it's again some of it I got on a
human level does not hurt you to some
degree like because you love this club
so much and you're a winner and if you
see these players have checked out
you're you know it's not just they're
checking out on you as a manager but
they're checking out in the club that
you love yeah as a general as a general
it didn't hurt me because
having worked in football for a period
never been a player a long time I've
seen a lot of these instances and I'm
not holding the players to my standard
as such and and a lot of them I didn't
know the backstory in the Side Stories I
could get that they were moving on so
you know if a player is moving on they
might just not you know they might not
be ready for those last few games they
might have a bit of an issue or
something and you know but there's no
way that you you can accept that
there's no but but is it like well put
it this way I don't wanna I don't want
to come here and Shout too much because
in a short period
um it's hard for me to make too many
statements what I will say is that I
think I unders I understood the role of
being interim and I understood that
probably there was not much
there's certainly not much the game for
me saying uh that was so bad or that was
so bad now because when I look back I'll
probably just try and take my own thing
out of it and I don't I don't want to go
there I didn't work long enough with the
players to be there to one guy and I
can't believe that happened at the end
of the season you know I walked into a
position with some of them were a bit
disenchanted or whatever and I'm not
going to tell that that player that you
shouldn't feel like this but I'll try
and drive them and drive them amongst
the group but it's not for me to go
because a lot of players will sit with a
couple of players sat with me and said
listen I'm going to be leaving in the
summer and find it a bit difficult I'm
like okay I get that I'm not going to
change that in four weeks or whatever so
yeah so what was the objective then in
the in the four weeks when you're
thinking about when you realized that
what was the sort of behind the scenes
context
do your objective shifts and shifts
slightly and go okay
success here looks now looks like this
for me yeah in reality and I didn't get
that because it would be results you
know because everyone would um
would judge me on results so in terms of
me it would be success here to have got
better results in that period of time
and come through there working at a high
level Club again you know it's it's
extreme pressures it's the media is the
Players it's everything is trying to get
results in games and in some games we
competed against Real Madrid we competed
against Manchester City we competed but
you know that wasn't to be but that was
my version of success but you know
football is not that simple you know
so many journalists ask you after if you
you kind of like regret taking the job
and your answer's always been like no
because I've learned a lot it's your
Club it's Chelsea
um however had you known the context and
this is only something we can know in
hindsight we can't know it in foresight
if there was some magic Genie that could
have shown you the context the behind
the scenes the Dynamics the 32 players
the culture
honestly do you think you would have
made a different decision because I
think I would have yeah but we don't
have hindsight obviously we it's a
magical thing that yeah but I think
probably and you and you might think I'm
wrong for saying this but you would
probably be taking some emotion out of
it from my point and also just how I am
about the challenge of going into that
so if you say all right all the context
is here Frank but you're not going to
know what the results are yet but here's
all the context you know this player is
disenchanted I kind of knew that this is
how it's working I'm not I would be like
okay this is what I've got to work with
can I get results and whether I was
um misguided in my own thoughts I
probably would have gone yeah I would do
that if I've got to be honest it's too
easy for me to say I wouldn't have done
it for that and and nobody gave me that
what you said if you had that in an
Ideal World I understand what you're
saying and again that's why people might
look I don't I generally don't have a
problem with you know someone how I
would possibly have a view from the
outside on someone doing what I did I
don't think it's like changed the world
I think my I played for 13 years at
Chelsea I've coached them before in the
Champions League for two years on the
truck like I don't think that whether
people want to have a view on me I don't
worry about about that I went back for
that challenge at that period and you
know we didn't get the results I wanted
I know a lot of the reasons why I'll
take the responsibility for my reasons
why
um and that was it you know I don't have
a big issue with it it's like because
it's Chelsea's so topical you manage
chose it's one of the biggest clubs in
the world and it's it's one of those
clubs that takes so much especially in
the Roman Abram which is so much
interest because there's a turnover you
know lose one or two games and it's like
oh what's happening here so you know
it's uh I'm big enough and strong enough
to handle that stuff so you would have
having seen the context you would have
backed yourself regardless I don't
regardless that sounds like I'm thinking
I'm some Superman that turned out not to
be Superman you know what I mean I don't
I don't
I don't know you're asking me so
hypothetical the season ends eventually
um
relief relieved in any way how do you
feel it um the last as I said last
couple of weeks were quite tough because
it was seeing that season that's not for
someone like me and for a club like
Chelsea like it's not a nice place to be
you know I want to want to challenge for
things and that's that's not nice I
release probably yeah
um because I knew it would end and it
ended and it wasn't that nice of time
time to have holidays that I've planned
before yeah for sure
um and time to reflect and I haven't got
a huge amount of Reflections on it you
know a lot of people have but I haven't
I've got more Reflections on the year at
Everton and a 18 months at Chelsea
before in Derby this this period was so
abstract in a way for me that interim
rail was so different that I I can't put
it into a context of like I wish I'd
gone on a meeting on day one if I'd have
done a meeting about culture I think
they would it would have changed like I
don't it wouldn't have changed you know
if my tactics were slightly different in
that game I don't believe it would have
changed and me overthink I would
definitely think that if it was there so
you know I might be right or wrong but
so I don't so relief and a feeling of
like I wish they'd gone better you know
that's really nature and I wanted it to
be better because I'm Chelsea person you
know the Chelsea fans are fantastic with
me in this modern world I'm not saying
Flick online you'll find everyone
fantastic but in terms of Stanford
bridge I think there's an understanding
at the moment the club's not where he
wants to be and Chelsea fans actually
pretty good with that there's some other
clubs that would be like we lost at home
to Brentford two-nil and like there'll
be some clubs that would be fans that
would be a bit more vocal they were
actually pretty good I think you know
they're waiting to see something better
this year but they've also Chelsea fans
watch the team in the second division in
the in the 80s and and seen some
struggles over the years you know the
old Affair and so I do think that the
success that they've enjoyed as a club
for these 20 years or so it's a real
appreciation of it and you know I don't
want to go on forever but I do think
they understand it's a difficult moment
I certainly felt that at Stamford Bridge
yeah they were super they were chanting
your name even at all traffic when I was
there yeah um even though the scoreline
wasn't great and yeah I actually do
think that the Chelsea fans have
understood that the new ownership what
you said to their intentions are good
yeah and I think they can they can
respect they've brought really good
players there's a transitional moment
but I think they they all appreciate
that
um all of that stuff all of that noise
online Christine you family you said
mentioned scrolling online how does one
yeah keep those two worlds apart so that
you can focus on your job without
letting the outside world in too much
wait so have you got a strategy what's
your I don't scroll too much you don't
scroll no scroll at all very very
occasionally do you have the apps the
social networking apps and stuff I have
Instagram right okay which I'm not but I
have an Instagram page but I'm not very
active on it's just not really me
um so I don't really I scroll for like
nosiness you know what I run up to and
then I have a few friends and stuff or
whatever
um but I don't actively do it because
uh let's say I don't have the time to do
it in terms of myself it's just not
something and I appreciate anyone else
wants to show themselves you know
somebody then or in a gym like that's
their prerogative I've got no problem
with that I just it's for me it's just
not something I do and then doing that's
a nice light I'm quite a boxer in my
life when I said that I mean I box off
things and when I on a box of I don't
want to hear that um you know what some
fan and sound so he's gonna say about me
here and flick on the comments from a
Chelsea post I would just flick by that
I try and stay aware of media because I
think it's I do press conferences every
four days you have to understand what
the tone is of what maybe people are
writing about you or you know the
journalists how do you how do you do
that have you got like someone that
comes and briefs you in the morning yeah
and they tell you what you need to know
yeah uh okay yeah yes and I would I
would tap into it a bit in the week
whether I'm flicking on certain websites
through the week and I wouldn't
obviously go in into the story Into the
comments so we'll kind of go into
because you've got to be across things I
will do that but I think it's very
unhealthy to to scroll but I I found
that as a my playing career missed out
the social media came in towards the end
and I'm so thankful we used to just have
the newspapers giving us like three out
of ten when we played for England and we
got knocked out of the World Cup right
and that was hard about looking at the
paper to see what they gave you and that
was a version of that and then the
social media so I I don't envy the
modern player as a manager I think it's
a bit different I'm not in a place where
I scroll so I've done in videos younger
players men and women now that are
coming through and have sort of
household names and it's getting so much
attention and so much of its negative I
think it's incredible that we got to
that stage that there's that amount of
hate for but it's so easy to be hateful
um and my my I would try and say to the
young players don't look at it but the
minute the game finishes they're
flicking and it's it's difficult in your
professional career what has been what
do you kind of count down as the hardest
moment in terms of scrutiny in your
professional and like you're playing
create and you managerial career what is
been not the hardest moment for you
playing for England really yeah it was
2006 the 2006 World Cup I think I had
wrote the record for shots a goal
without scoring classic isn't they
disallowed one that should have gone in
that was in 2010 okay so 2006 I think I
had like 32 shots or something I went in
as England player of the year I'd had a
good year or two playing for England so
I got myself in there and was becoming
you know
uh you know in fiction the same and then
I went there having scored some goals in
the lead up scoring at Chelsea and just
had a tournament and it wouldn't go in
for me and then that played on my mind
and games I was like second guessing
myself a little bit in the game and
probably off the back of that there's a
lot of criticism
um for myself for some others I remember
us Chelsea boys getting a lot of
criticism for the next six months every
away
game that we went to was like you let
your country Down the song
how does that compare to being a manager
in terms of criticism I found it harder
as a player I don't know whether it's
just maturity
um because uh as a player I don't know
maybe it's in my 20s
um I found it harder as a manager I
think it's a it's a different version of
criticism and
um I think as a player I don't know why
I found it harder if I'm a flyer on the
wall after a bad defeat what do I see
you probably see a bit of uh of a
going over the situation kind of face
um and it's different I have certain
games that they will affect you and it
might not be the one you'd expect you
know the Manchester United you talked
about there we lost 4-1 was it and that
one might be different because I kind of
know where we're at this season's Peter
and out you know we play some good stuff
I don't know whatever and there might be
another game that you know we lost and
it really affected me because maybe
think something I did or should have
done or a substitution so on those bad
ones you would see the face and you know
like I would you know I kind of go into
my show I was like I'm soaking in my
bedroom I'm big big boy you know um but
you know maybe I have a glass of wine
stew on it don't get to bed till quite
late and then you have to go again you
know like it's a great sort of adage
that you can people go you learn more
from defeat you don't feel like that
straight away but you have to be big
enough to go over the game again what's
the strategy now what's the you know the
solution to that what do we do wrong and
and that's what it is you can't get too
down but we're all human
when you were um 29 years old
um one such moment occurred in your life
that really I think from your own words
tested you at a much deeper level you
described yourself as being a zombie for
a year after the passing of your mother
and she died at 58 years old
um while you were playing and while you
were playing at the very very highest
level
that for me struck when I was reading
through the way you described that
moment in your life struck me as a real
sort of destabilizing moment in terms of
focus and all of those things
the question that I um
the question that I had is how as a
player when you're playing at the
highest level and you have something
like that happen how do you show up and
maintain those standards and
be Frank Lampard that's probably what I
meant when I said zombie because it
became autopilot and I think
um
when you talk about mental health that's
the one time that I've been challenged
to the extreme with it and you know a
lot of people go through this and that
was the really interesting thing I found
because I have some perspective now
these years later
is that when it happens to you and it's
unexpected it's very sudden for me
you you've never thought about that kind
of thing happening before the only thing
I'll say is this I was I was a mummy's
boy as I've said before so I used to
have these weird
um moments
I don't know if you have them I have
them sometimes when I think about death
and I kind of go oh God when you die
there's nothing and I have those moments
and it hits me in the stomach for about
like four seconds I'm driving along I'm
like there's nothing there's absolutely
nothing and then you go oh I don't know
where you've got to go to you know and
life carries on and I used to have that
with my mum and then it was probably
Reliance I had to know she was I was so
like mummy's boy you know growing up so
I remember as I got a little bit older
like to my teens and I was like imagine
mum wasn't there for a moment it was a
panic for like 10 seconds I remember
them and then because it was 29 as you
say and it was very sudden it was in a
hotel
um that we used to start pre-game we
were playing Wigan on in the evening at
home
I've got a call from my sister telling
me that she'd fail ill and then so I
kind of went okay let's go into the
hospital okay that's a bit dangerous so
I went to sleep I didn't sleep
supposedly would sleep I was kind of
lying there a bit like tossing and
couldn't get off I'm at the Mainstay
I've got another call and as we get on
the bus to go to Stamford Bridge is like
two a mile
I get the call that no no she's getting
much worse so I'm like right I mean I'm
in Frank I'm a sportsman go and do your
job mode and then I just kind of broke a
bit on the coach kind of well I met I
felt myself go grind someone said to me
until you went great but I felt myself
going like oh
anyway it's got to the stadium said to
the manager manager this is what's
happening and he was like go so I was
like in the tracksuit drive over to East
London mum's in hospital
so when I get there mum's now in the on
on the verge of going into intensive
care so she's got the stuff on and stuff
and I walk in I'm in the tracksuit
and my mum had the oxygen mask on and
she hadn't been speaking so she's taken
really ill in a day and she lifted a um
a mask and said to me what are you doing
here tell me my Chelsea tracksuit and I
didn't know what to say because I didn't
want to go you know I'm here because
this is a really bad situation I mean
I'm just here to see you Mum you know
and then sort of put the mask back on
and then she was really and then they
kind of wheeled her in she held my hand
which I'll never forget and then she
went in and was put into intensive care
so that was one a one week process of my
mum in intensive care so
um she started to get better
um and then
um a few of the family were kind of
getting not excited about it but it was
last progress you know mum's out she'd
been on every machine possible and I'm
still having to think about going into
work I can't remember if I trained that
period I can't remember that week that's
like a blur I just remember being at
home
a lot you know and really you know in a
bad way
um and then we had Champions League
games coming up against Liverpool
played one away I came back mum was
getting a bit better and then we got the
phone call that she'd passed away she
had a brain hemorrhage so just as she
was getting better everyone was excited
she passed away there and then so it was
like the the biggest Devastation I can't
explain and as I say years later I
realized that this happens to so many
other people and when you're a young man
who hadn't really lost anyone you don't
have that real feeling of what that is
and I lost a person that was the closest
person to me you know everything to me
and I'll never forget the feeling of my
stomach if I talk about it I get it
instantly again
um and
um I lost you know what was my best
friend the person that give me all that
kind of emotional stuff I'd spoken about
the warmth and the the sudden feeling
that someone's not going to be with you
like it doesn't compare to anything when
you're that close
um so you know in terms of work after
that probably some of it if I look back
I probably go maybe I should have just
come out of it like life is bigger than
that but it was like my probably a tiny
coping mechanism for me we played a game
a game against Liverpool uh the second
leg and I scored a penalty we won the
game now we're getting sent to the
Champions League final and I remember
sitting address from afterwards and I
had this almighty
um like sense of of fatigue and you know
body and mental fatigue
uh I went home and sort of opened a beer
and I couldn't even drink it I went to
bed and it was like it's like everything
came out of me then of like a week or
two a full blast of
of this pain you know it's just complete
pain and then you lose your best friend
and the person that you know I've still
got a number in my phone and I've still
got a couple of voice note things we
were never a big family for videos and
stuff and I wish we were
um the only thing I have is that my
mum's sister is Sandra Sandra redknapp
Harry redknapp's wife
and every time I speak to Sandra I hear
my mum they look very similar they sound
very similar and it's like in the first
period it was painful now it's kind of
nice you know because that's a memory
for me but the you know it's the the
feeling the grief you know I I it
catches up on me now and again many
years later I think I probably had a
year
um I was single I was like probably
drinking a little bit I was playing
fantastic football at a really good year
football is weird
um and then I met Christine and thank
God Christine came along around that
time because I was a little bit
you know not not right in that period so
it was a
it was a it was a really
um
obviously you know anybody who loses
someone so close to them but she was so
big in my life and was such a balance in
my life and then you know that sudden
thing is just terrible did you process
that because it sounds like
because you had football commitments
back to back to back that there wasn't
really an opportunity to like sit and
yeah I I don't know I mean I've been
through the experience and
um
that zombie thing I talk about is like I
I couldn't comprehend it I felt empty
and weak but I had a job to do and the
job Associated wasn't trying to be a
hero I just didn't know where if I think
if I'd have laid around all day I would
have really taken more of a hit it was
almost like getting up and going to work
in that period and having something to
aim for was just almost like that's what
I should do and then I definitely took
the hit later on for that I definitely
took a kind of deferred moments of grief
and I'd talk about them like I say there
it could be anything that would be
um a couple of glasses of wine and
something said at a dinner table a
moment of someone else and I feel bad
about this talking about their mother or
something you know and they're talking
glowingly about their mother and and and
you kind of get hit you know
um or another parent's birthday like
crazy things I've got no right to be
upset about if you know what I mean but
it just hits me and you kind of and I
that sort of get on with it like hard no
get on with it son kind of feel feel
which has stuck with me that was the one
time I remember being absolutely broken
and tested on that because I had now and
I got some anger as well I remember I
used to I remember having road rage a
couple of times literally the few days
after I pulled out of my drive
and it was a Chelsea game so I wasn't
playing it because of what happened but
I was at home and I was driving to go
and see my sister or something someone
sort of drove across me and I got out of
the car though and I went for them and
it was a Chelsea fan he went Frank
calmed down I was like yeah sorry and I
had these moments of anger and a period
afterwards which would just come out of
me out and I went I wouldn't say that
they've stuck with me from now but it
definitely changed me as a person I
don't know how to explain it but it
definitely made me have a different take
on things and be a bit more
I don't know if ruthless is the word but
more you know that thing about kind of
like cutting out
some people that were in your life that
you maybe would have got on with I just
kind of took a little bit more of a
direct approach in my life after that
amongst some serious moments of grief
within it you know I
it's uh
it was just it's a tough time the the
only benefit it sounds really warped I
said this to someone the other day the
only benefit is that now I you know I I
don't have to go through that again that
sounds really strange it was such a
tough period for me
that the only thing now and I see you
know Christine's family are there and
other people around me have friends and
family and I miss my mum so much like
every day and as time goes by of course
things balance out but I can't envisage
ever going through that pain again about
what I did because my mum was the only
person would be now now Christine is
obviously that person in my life and my
children of course but in terms of what
she meant to me at that time the only
thing is like I can go that is so
painful I really couldn't go through
that again now that's it's a weird way
of looking at it I hope that doesn't
sound strange it's just a process and it
was too difficult and it's almost like
it was almost like a dream it was my
life was never supposed to be like that
in my head you know my mum was 58 and I
felt like she was quite old and now I
started doing the math and I'm 44. you
know like and you kind of go it wasn't
old you know like I was 29 a month felt
a bit older at a point now he's like she
should be mid 70s now and you know as I
say the sudden nature of it meant you
couldn't speak to her as well which was
like as I've got older I've realized
that my mum would have known exactly how
I felt about her but time it was like
I want to say something more you know
and I couldn't
you want to say something more
just like thank you do you know what I
mean like thanks to
um for being the balance for being the
one
um
who've you know in those tough moments
when my dad was being harsh or something
there for being the one that would when
I was crying in the bath after a game
and coming and knocking on the door it's
like for making me food you know things
a great mother does she just was that
you know my mum was there to sort of it
might be sound old school now and but
she was a hairdresser by trade who then
became my house wife and a mother and
you know for everything that was gone on
in my family life and lots of things
have she was always the one that was
like the real stand-up when I look back
now I I understand it even more that she
had the ethics and everything about her
and then I would love to just be able to
say that you know it's like those you
know an emotional song can get you going
it's like can I speak to her one more
time to say here's a monologue for you
you know like just to to hear it but I
with time I definitely have got more
strength in the fact that she knew that
and that's that's it
and when everyone I speak to says that
you are that Class Act you are the
you're kind you're empathetic and all of
that
now I know where that's come that comes
from now
I don't know listen I I knew you were
going to ask me this because I've seen
you you know it wouldn't you know it's
part of my story
and I didn't want to cry I'm surprised I
haven't
um but because I've cried probably
enough at different times
um but it's um
it's almost something like it is
strangely therapeutic to speak about and
this is very public and that's not
normally how I'm in very private allies
Christian are very private it's how we
like to live and sometimes when those
moments where I say the really
grief-stricken moments over a glass of
wine
kind of feel better after them because
that's probably why I held in when I was
like hitting that penalty and and people
giving me a huge plot I remember when
you score that penalty when your mama
just died as if it was like a hero
moment it wasn't it was me just kind of
going I got to try and do this and and
do my job and then these moments now
sometimes are quite therapeutic if I'm
honest but it's uh you know especially
for other people that have gone through
that and much worse you know a lot of
worse things can happen in different
ways but until you feel that loss you
know I remember I actually remember
thinking when I lost mum it was like a
couple of my friends lost their parents
when they were younger
and I remember then thinking I've never
really broached that subject with them
you know a couple of my friends are like
14 and lost I met at school at that age
who had already lost their parent or
were in the process and I never really
kind of went and they were like 14 I was
29 and I'd never even not thought about
it but you know you kind of go sorry
mate and then you move on you can
imagine what's you know all the things
and I had to approach it 29 is slightly
different but those things so it you
know life kicks you sometimes and that
was the biggest kick I think I'll
I've I've had till this point you know
and hopefully
um for a long time
do you talk about your emotions with
Christine yeah I do I do I think I'm
quite good about that she will say to me
sometimes I'm quite closed yeah for that
stuff and then that kind of kicks me
into talking about it because
yeah my girlfriend's really good at that
yeah annoyingly good yeah no they're
really good and I don't mind she sees me
going into the Zone kind of thing
sometimes and she's about what's
bothering you like oh well it's this you
know it's probably something that's a
bit irrelevant or something but is that
the first answer you'll give because
mine's usually nothing yeah
no that's true but it's good I think
because I definitely want to don't come
across as this you know like I said like
this get on with it thing it's certainly
not me I look at myself as being you
know the balance again of my mother was
that one that she gave me that kind of
empathy I associate all the empathy with
my mother that I had because that's how
she was was always with me so when I you
know it's just I also have a mechanism
that kind of keeps it there but it's
definitely inside and you know maybe
children also help with that because
when you see your child
and their smiles and their sort of
innocent nature and how they are I think
that also helps you become a little bit
more emotional because you start to care
about that more than pretty much
anything else which is which has also
been a beautiful thing over the last few
years I've realized that my first
Foundation is my health something you've
heard me talk about a lot nothing
matters more than that first foundation
so that is why I'm so excited to be
involved with a company like whoop who
are leading the charge when it comes to
bettering your health all my friends
have received free Loops from me because
once you've tried whoop I think it's
like lights turning on to your health
that's the only way I can describe it my
sleep my performance my recovery my
stress it's like someone turned the
lights on I'm sure you guys know but for
those that don't know what whoop is it's
a wearable health and fitness coach that
provides you with the feedback and
actionable insights into your sleep
recovery training stress and overall
health and I have become entirely
utterly obsessed with it if you know me
well enough you know how obsessed I am
with the smallest details I think the
Small Things compounded together produce
the biggest gains in our life and that
is exactly what woop does in my health
and fitness every single day being able
to see my one percent gains on woop has
had a profound impact on my health
journey I highly recommend you try it
all you have to do is search
join.woop.com CEO to get a free months
whoop membership on me and if you do
send me a DM and let me know how you get
on I'd love I'd love I'd love to know a
quick word on huel as you know they're a
sponsor of this podcast and I'm an
investor in the company one of the
things I've never really explained is
how I came to have a relationship with
huel one day in the office many years
ago a guy walked past called Michael and
he was wearing a heeled t-shirt and I
was really compelled by the logo I just
thought from a design aesthetic point of
view it was really interesting and I
asked him what that word meant and why
he was wearing that T-shirt and he said
it's this brand called heal and they
make food that is nutritionally complete
and very very convenient and has the
planet in mind and he the next day
dropped off a little bottle of fuel on
my desk and from that day onwards I
completely got it because I'm someone
that cares tremendously about having a
nutritionally complete diet but
sometimes because of the way my life is
that falls by the wayside so if there
was a really convenient reliable
trustworthy way for me to be
nutritionally complete in an affordable
away I was all ears especially if it's a
way that is conscious of the planet give
it a chance give it a shot let me know
what you think
what's the future like for you Frank
what do you think I don't know I'm very
it's hard to know a lot of people could
say to me are you sure you know get into
Panda tree it's easy put your feet up do
what you know that that's and it's
certainly I I get my
um enjoyment I get my my gets my blood
flowing is working and being a coach
so that's what I want to do and I'm in
no immediate rush to do it the reality
is off the back of Everton and Chelsea
probably time for me to take my time
anyway
because of what opportunity they might
be out there there may be no opportunity
there may be something that comes up
that I want to look at and say does that
work for me on all purposes because I
get your point with the Chelsea ones
like did you really need to take that
and the the jobs I've taken have been
quite challenging and a lot of I'm not
saying I'm going to be giving this like
here you go this is going to be great
so I would Point try and choose well
without sounding too picky because you
know I will want to work
um and in the meantime
do the things that make me happy which
is being around my family I like to
travel it's like the one thing that I
um really like to spend my money on
being out it's when when I travel I want
to go better than home
and if I don't go better than home I'll
stay at home and I've got a nice house
so you know so I we we love that so I'll
you know use the time to travel a bit be
with the family and my children spend
more time my Elder daughters are doing a
levels in gcses now and be be around
that and that's nice and sometimes you
know I think that's good for me because
I am so driven it's like I feel like I
should work I should work and actually
sometimes you can actually I'm 45 and
I've done it right in my life maybe I
don't need need to work and that and
that's not a bad place to be I'm
fortunate I don't I have gratitude for
that so at the moment it's the Gratitude
of that enjoy it and then try and work
again and what will be what would be
your sort of decision making framework
when people call and they say what about
this job or what about this what's the
how would you decide whether it's worth
taking the
well it's hard to say but from my
experience I would want to make sure I
would want to have conversations to find
out what the the job is and I can't I
can't sit here feel this way and talk to
you about being a lion then they need to
feel the way that you know a bit of
coaching they're going to do this and
work together
and probably take another job where it
doesn't feel aligned you know I I
shouldn't um
do that so I'd want to have a
conversation and be like what what can I
do for you I have to tell myself clearly
that's the point but what can how will
it work together and maybe get something
that feels a bit like and I don't mind I
will work you know in in the UK anywhere
I would travel if an opportunity came up
I would certainly prioritize a bit of
family to make sure that it's something
that works for my family
um ideally so I don't know I don't know
about that one everyone seems to be
going there they do they do I mean I
would prefer to stay in the UK for sure
um and I don't mind I went and lived in
Everton for a year lives in Derby for a
year I miss my family a lot but you have
to you know make those big decisions
with fortunate in ways but we'll um I'll
see I'll see what comes up it's hard to
call before it comes if we sit here in
10 years time in this chapters this next
sort of 10 years this next decade has
been a success what does that look like
what would have had to have happened for
it to have been a success this next
decade well 55 year old frank and Ming
55 well I'm here so that's good at 55 I
think my you know obviously the family
to be well and healthy you understand
that more when you hit for me it was him
probably faulty health and and
understanding maybe you check yourself
more on those things and lifestyle and
then
um to be hopefully have managed and had
success coaching you know that's that's
what I want to do I can't see what it
looks like but I would love to be able
to to show myself consistently in a job
and what I can do I haven't had that
opportunity yet for whether that was me
or whatever as the circumstances have
been but to do that so I'm very
determined to do I'm good like that I'm
determined that I like to work like
anyone who knows me will know that like
regardless of what my career's been if
you put it in front of me I'll tackle it
head on and then you know I'm
um I'm always trying to improve so
hopefully in 10 years I can show you
that
there's got to be a part of you that
wants to go back to Chelsea someday
knowing if I know you are the way I know
you there's got to be a part of you and
suddenly that's like you know one day
I'll I'll go back it's funny you know
like you talk about should you have
taken that job I reckon if you'd have
asked me that before going back
I might have said no as in not like I
don't want to go back to Chelsea but I
would have certainly seen myself no no
like that's chapters done as a coach
but now I've been back I would think
about it even more and it's strange and
I think you know the the fact that the
ownership has changed at Chelsea and
it's gone in a different direction I
think it can be a really positive thing
for the club I think people might not
see that now but I think it really can
um but obviously I have a lot to do to
be part of that ever but like I I don't
you have to make a clear decision when
we play 13 years of Chelsea I said I'll
never play anywhere else I end up planet
Man City some people criticize me for
that it's fine I didn't expect it but
man city was an amazing experience I
went to New York City it was an amazing
experience when you become a manager you
can't say I'm going to be Chelsea
manager I'm going to be this you have to
take the journey because that's those
are the rules for all of us you know you
can be you know a success for a moment
of Everton everyone goes hold on you
stand up and then you know next job what
is it and I would I you know I have
respect for so many big clubs that you
know there are certain clubs I wouldn't
manage I'm not going to declare them
because that just sounds like cheap and
but I think it's important I I respect
my time Chelsea Supply and what the club
means to me but I don't see it as the
B100 but as I say having been back there
it did re-light a fire I left Chelsea in
covert as a manager because I didn't
have any fans for my my last period so I
kind of walked out like a little bit
through the back door
um in a sense
um and this time it felt different and
that wasn't a great period but it is
still a huge club for me so maybe I'm
really excited to watch what happens
next thank you um you did a great job at
Derby obviously then you got um Chelsea
into the the champions league if I think
finished fourth That season
um under a transfer ban and then you
kept Everton up on the last day of the
Season which again most people had kind
of counted Everton out so obviously
there was that interim period I look
it's funny because I'm gonna be honest
so I when when we were meant to have
this podcast last time then you called
me
um and said listen I can't come Can't
Tell You Why
um and I kind of put two and two
together and figured it was the job I
looked at that and thought look I don't
know Chelsea 11th or 12th at the moment
like what's what's the worst that can
happen really what I didn't know is the
the back context so if I was in your
shoes uh in hindsight and we don't have
hindsight in in the moment I would have
probably I would have not taken the job
if I was in that situation but in
foresight I definitely would have hmm
100 yeah all the reasons you said if
Manchester United called me now I take
the job yeah and I have no experience
yeah so but um but I think what we're
gonna I'm really excited to see what we
see next from you and your sort of
managerial career because
I mean what you the experience you've
had warts and all is worth a ton yeah
you know at all different levels all
different phases transitional relegation
battles all of that is worth more than a
lot of successes are worth and you've
had that in a short window of time so
really really excited about your next
chapter whenever it comes thank you um
is there anything at all you would say
to Chelsea fans that are watching this
now that are
um
that would love to you know Chelsea fans
will be listening to this because they
want to get a your opinion on what's
just happened but they probably want to
get your opinion on like what you think
the future looks like I guess and also I
think a lot of them do want to like
check in on you because since you've
left we've not really heard from you in
this context yeah and I've enjoyed that
I've enjoyed not speaking it's been nice
um no I think for Chelsea fans I would
say that um
uh in terms of what do I think is next I
I listen to possession I spoke yesterday
was his first press conference and he he
uh he spoke very well and he spoke about
bringing a a Unity at the training
ground and a family feel and then
winning which is Chelsea DNA
so I think they've got a really good
manager in charge and I think the
players will definitely develop with
their you know as they as they develop
naturally they're good players young
players there has to be some patience in
putting that together because I think
that's that has to be clear
and the owners have a big intention so I
think as things settle it may not be
straight away but I think that there's a
really positive future for the club and
I was in it and it was tough but you
know I know how quickly things can
change if you get the strategy right
in terms of me I'm absolutely fine and
I'd certainly appreciate the support I
had from as I say majority a lot of fans
that would you know contact me or be at
Stanford Bridge
and for anybody that was on the other
side of that was like why is Frank back
in the job I I think they maybe I've
explained some of my part in it today
and some of the challenges I'll always
take responsibility I wouldn't walk back
into that challenge without sort of
saying this might not go right and
what's my responsibility so but Chelsea
is always a huge club and as I say I
never went back to Chelsea until
three days before I went and took the
interim job manager and I went to the
Liverpool game and end up having a
conversation
and it was a difficult period for me for
some reason I left in covert as I say
and I moved on to Everton
and it reignited that kind of feeling
being back at Stamford Bridge I have to
say not that I lost it it just reignited
it and you know so to Chelsea fans I
know I'm fine I'm fine I appreciate
their support even my playing career
it's nice when you finish playing
because your playing career is there and
I can look back on it with a lot of
pleasure for a lot of the good moments
when you're in it it's like what's next
and you're sort of like always
challenging yourself when you finish you
kind of go yeah you know that was good
that was all right it was a lot of good
stuff so there were good times and I was
very thankful to be part of a great club
and we'll see
you gave Mason Mount his start
yes I think he's a great signing for
your yeah that's what I was going to say
thank you for that he's fantastic why is
he living why is he leaving Chelsea he's
born and born and bred isn't he yeah I
think it's a complicated one and in the
end I think is
uh he's got a year left on his contract
what I'll say about Mason is
all the things I spoke about there you
talk about like modern players and how
the game's changed he's a throwback to
the attitude and the commitment and the
quality the you know that was the beauty
of working with Mason was that he gave
you so much in terms of his
um effort every day anything you'd ask
him to do was like yeah and he kind of
got it and I think any great player has
to have that kind of intelligence and
that desire about them you know like
what do you need me to do a bit I've got
it and I'll do it I'll repeat it and
also quality so in terms of what he'll
bring to Manchester United it won't just
be what Mason brings it will bring loads
of talent that he's just gonna Gap and
levels yeah I I think so and and don't
win me wrong the bar raise is already
there with Bruno Fernandez but he will
actually yeah casimiro but he will
absolutely fit in with it if you're
trying to build which you're saying a
group mentality of a team and you know
players are just going to give
everything and their talent which type
team he fits it so I've seen some like
sort of alternative reactions to that
it's like oh yeah Mason amounts of
goodbye why would you pay that for him
nice amount is going to be a fantastic
player there my opinion
it's really nice to know because
actually I was a bit on the fence in
regards of don't really know the
character of the man but I have heard
from inside Old Trafford that Eric
tanhard Eric tenhargis really Ultra
focused on exactly what you've said
above everything else he's focused on
that like core values so casimiro um
Bruno
etc etc and so it's nice to know that
Mason is uh yeah he is a bar razor yep
why is he leaving do you know
um seeking a different challenge or is
it no I don't think so I think probably
Mason would have envisaged two years ago
they'd stay at Chelsea for a lot of his
career I just think circumstances his
contract situation
um I know he's got a big love for
Chelsea
um but also in the modern day you know I
think more than more than even in my day
players do move and I don't think you
know if the challenge of moving now it's
come to that for Mason personally
is a is a good challenge for him I would
like to finish that Chelsea because I
think he's he would have been Central to
it but it didn't happen
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest and I have
to say this is the longest question I've
ever been left for anyone else it's
quite abstract right as well so we're
both gonna have to kind of figure this
one out but the question is
you're gonna be surprised by this when
broken down to its roots or origin the
word
enthusiasm begins with n Theos which
means with God for people who have not
identified something which they are
truly passionate about pursuing can you
suggest a way to cultivate that
enthusiasm
um so I think the real question here is
just in this line here which is when
people for people who haven't identified
something which they are truly
passionate about yeah pursuing how do
they go about that wow
um
thanks to that one yeah
I don't know
um this is a good point actually because
my daughters now my oldest daughter is
going leave getting her a level results
this summer
it's talking about uni but she doesn't
really know what she wants to do and I
actually felt uh not bad I went to
school obviously but my Pathways you
know looking back was like fortunately
was that I didn't have to think about
myself
and I so I haven't got any big answers
for and also like from a modern woman
you know where is the pathway what does
she want to I ask that question and
she's not sure which is completely
understandable so for me I think for her
if if we're flipping it there's maybe
whether it's a passion or not but my
thing and it probably goes back to my
roots is to
the work ethic thing is what I say to it
is to get out there and get in the
workplace and meet people because I
think in the modern world
with my daughters are so engrossed in
social media
they have a lot of answers about life
you know a lot of answers and I'm like
okay I don't agree with that one but
I'll let that one go I don't agree with
that and then I'll start to feel like a
dinosaur but I do think that they kind
of get caught up in that and all the
answers are there and like okay we're
gonna do then and they go I don't know
and you kind of go okay well fine you've
got all this information it's the modern
world but what are you going to do go
out and get a weekend job if you're
going to go to UNI go out and experience
what the real world is like rather than
this alternative world that you're
slightly looking at and then I think
someone might ignite it so that that was
my and again that's probably as deep as
I could go because I don't care where it
is you could be in the coffee shops you
could be in this shop or that shop or
whatever but
um this is my adult story obviously so
it was more about getting out and
meeting people and I guess probably in
in to bring that question back to me
myself going out of my comfort zone and
leaving Chelsea to go to Manchester City
and then live in New York for two years
ignited a million things in May and none
of them were like big Hobbies or
something like that it was just like wow
there's a different world a different
culture people who approach things with
positivity and energy that I've never
seen in England and it changed my
Approach
so maybe my answer would be come out of
your comfort zone and do something which
is different I was fortunate today I
worked there but I was living in
probably what for me is possibly the
best city in the world
and it changed me as a person so maybe
you know to to get the passion try
something take yourself out the comfort
zone and it might just appear for you
makes perfect sense and I think yeah
exactly what I heard there is that often
we when we're two within familiarity
we're not going to get the inspiration
of what might be our passion if we're
searching for it but going to a New York
or
um just getting out into the world and
having experiences can lead us there
yeah Frank thank you so much for your
time today and thank you for doing this
because I I want to say like you um you
are a man of your word now because we're
going to do this last time and you could
have easily not done it but you messaged
me and said I want to get that back on
because I said I would
um and again that's just another example
of you just being a Class Act the whole
process of you counting last time
because you've got the Chelsea job and
then coming back you've just been an
absolute Class Act
um you're a man where no one can
question your your integrity and your
principles and then on top of that I I
see a man who is um incredibly Keen to
work and do well in whatever he applies
himself to and because of that you've
LED this fantastic career both as a
professional football player and as a
manager we're which is I think you're
just halfway through and there's this
whole new season as you get up to you
know 45 years time you're going to be
90. and I'm so excited to watch that
story unfold because of all the wisdom
you've garnered in the last 45 so thank
you for being an inspiration to me for
giving me so many great memories in
football as an England player less so as
a Chelsea player because you guys were
really good
through that that that's that period so
um but it's a real honor to get to know
you and um yeah thank you for all your
wisdom thank you very much thank you
if you've been listening to this podcast
over the last few months you'll know
that we're sponsored and supported by
Airbnb but it amazes me how many people
don't realize they could actually be
sitting on their very own Airbnb for me
as someone who works away a lot it just
makes sense to Airbnb my place at home
whilst I'm away if your job requires you
to be away from home for extended
periods of time why leave your home
empty you can so easily turn your home
into an Airbnb and let it generate
income for you whilst you're on the road
whether you could use a little extra
money to cover some bills or for
something a little bit more fun your
home might just be worth more than you
think and you can find out how much it's
worth at airbnb.com
host that's airbnb.com UK slash host
[Music]
foreign